Education Content

Education lies at the heart of all societies, and in fact, defines how collectives operate and work amongst each other. Without education, we fail to work together and understand each other, especially in more diverse societies where its members come from all walks of life. In an ideal system, teaching and education is spread equally amongst all, and the spirit of education is to assist its students learn fairly and to their conducive benefits.

While such systems are replicable in northern Europe and have seen successful outcomes, both in standardised and subjective measures, Australia?s system frequently fails not only to maintain equity in its approach, but also fails to achieve the results it holds paramount in the eyes of teachers and students. The removal of needs-based funding by the Howard Government in 1997 not only set the tone for decades of educational inequality, with Australia becoming having some of the highest gaps between our excelling and trailing students out of all OECD nations. 

Hence, the imperative exists to provide educational solutions catered to the needs of students from lower Socio-Economic/Educational Standards, as these students are not only the most likely to fall behind, but also the least likely to be supported. By motivating young people to break cycles of economic and social repression, especially those from at risk backgrounds (suffering from poor mental health, migrant families, queer youth etc.), society can shift towards creating a ?fairer go? for all, a principle at the heart of Australian spirit.

My Role in Education:
As a STEM Professional with a strong communications background, I see it within my role to introduce younger ages to the opportunities which may arise out of alternate pathways, and/or how students can combine numerous non-academic skills to create pathways of their own. Whether this be through classes, workshops, mentoring sessions or larger events, I use my unique position within the education system to keep inspiring and influencing students in primary and secondary education.
